h1. CakePHP Exception Notifier

This is a CakePHP component. When an exception or a error occurs in your CakePHP application, this component sends you an email.
This component is inspired by exception_notification (Ruby on Rails plugin), see <a href="http://github.com/rails/exception_notification">http://github.com/rails/exception_notification</a>.

h2. Usage

First, put exception_notifier.php on app/controllers/components in your CakePHP application.
Second, put <a href="http://hal456.net/qdmail/">qdmail.php</a> on app/controllers/components too because excpetion_notifier.php depends on qdmail.php.
Then, add the following code in whichever controller you want to generate error emails (typically AppController). (Change "abc@example.com" to the recipient's mail address)

<pre>
<?php
class AppController extends Controller
{
    public $components = array('ExceptionNotifier');

    public function beforeFilter()
    {
        $this->ExceptionNotifier->exceptionRecipients = array('abc@example.com');
        $this->ExceptionNotifier->observe();
    }
}
</pre>

And that's all! This component is only run when DEBUG configuraton value is 0.

h2. Configuration

h3. Exception error configuration

In default configuration, this component observes exception, notice error, warning error, and fatal error.
If you don't want to observe notice error and warning error, add the following code.

<pre>
class AppController extends Controller
{
    public $components = array('ExceptionNotifier');

    public function beforeFilter()
    {
        $this->ExceptionNotifier->exceptionRecipients = array('abc@example.com');
        $this->ExceptionNotifier->observeNotice = false;    // don't observe notice error
        $this->ExceptionNotifier->observeWarning = false;   // don't observe warning error
        $this->ExceptionNotifier->observe();
    }
}
</pre>

If you want to observe strict error, add the following code.

<pre>
class AppController extends Controller
{
    public $components = array('ExceptionNotifier');

    public function beforeFilter()
    {
        $this->ExceptionNotifier->exceptionRecipients = array('abc@example.com');
        $this->ExceptionNotifier->observeStrict = true;    // observe strict error
        $this->ExceptionNotifier->observe();
    }
}
</pre>

h3. Mail configuration

If you use SMTP protocol when this component send exception mail, add the following code.

<pre>
class AppController extends Controller
{
    public $components = array('ExceptionNotifier');

    public function beforeFilter()
    {
        $this->ExceptionNotifier->exceptionRecipients = array('abc@example.com');
        $this->ExceptionNotifier->useSmtp = true; // use SMTP
        $this->smtpParams = array(
                                  'host'=>'smtp.example.com',
                                  'port'=>'25',
                                  'from'=>'abc@example.com',
                                  'protocol'=>'SMTP',
                               );
        $this->ExceptionNotifier->observe();
    }
}
</pre>


h2. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009-2010 milk1000cc, released under the MIT license.
